= ScrabbleRouser

ScrabbleRouser is a Ruby gem and command-line tool for generating optimal moves in Scrabble and Scrabble-like games. It largely exists as a personal amusement and self-improvement project: I have been coding in Ruby for a bit over three months but haven't got a feel for setting up a project on my own. Additionally, this gives me a chance to test out various AI strategies in Scrabble.

I hope to eventually package {Tesseract OCR}[http://code.google.com/p/tesseract-ocr/] as a native gem and add support to +scrabble_rouser+, so keep an eye out for future developments in that space.

== Basic Usage

Install the scrabble_rouser gem to get started:

  gem install scrabble_rouser

This will install the libraries and documentation for the gem as well as a +scrabble_rouser+ binary. Until I get around to writing some examples, you're own your own when it comes to the libraries. Use something like YARD[http://yardoc.org/] to browse my documentation. As far as the binary tool goes, the following command will generate optimal moves using the specified dictionary, rack letters, and board:

  scrabble_rouser --dictionary path/to/words.txt 'RCKLTRS' path/to/board.txt

You can type <tt>scrabble_rouser --help</tt> for additional details.

== Board Files

ScrabbleRouser expects board files to end in '.scrab'. The file format is pretty simple:

* The first line should start and end with <tt>+</tt> or +D+, separated by hyphens. If a +D+ is present, double-spacing is allowed in the board, otherwise this feature is disabled.

* Subsequent rows should start and end with <tt>|</tt> and must be the same length as the first row. Every character in the row is interpreted as part of the board state, unless double-spacing is enabled, in which case board tiles may be separated by single spaces.

* Letter multipliers are as follows:
  * The numeral <tt>2</tt> denotes a double-letter space
  * The numeral <tt>3</tt> denotes a triple-letter space

* Word multipliers are as follows:
  * The character <tt>@</tt> (shift-<tt>2</tt>) denotes a double-word space
  * The character <tt>#</tt> (shift-<tt>3</tt>) denotes a triple-word space

* An asterisk (<tt>*</tt>) denotes the starting space

* Uppercase letters <tt>A</tt>–<tt>Z</tt> represent placed tiles

* Lowercase letters <tt>a</tt>–<tt>z</tt> represent placed–and–locked-in blank tiles. For instance, if another player had played a blank tile and decided it was going to be an +A+, this would be denoted with an +a+. This is necessary because blank tiles have no value in subsequent plays.

There are some sample board files in the examples directory.

== Configuration

Everything is configured via command-line flags. Caching and configuration files are planned for a future release.

== Examples

For sample board files, check out the examples directory. Everything is pretty straightforward.

== Additional Reading

* {The World's Fastest Scrabble Program}[http://portal.acm.org/citation.cfm?id=42420]

== Copyright

Copyright © 2011 Jason Petersen. See LICENSE for details.
